### Week #1

This week, I spent most of my time learning more about the project that I will be working on for the fall. I started out by going through the [OpenTelemetry architecture](https://blog.newrelic.com/product-news/what-is-opentelemetry/) and a couple of talks that I came across on YouTube to get familiar with the project, since the scope of the project turned out to be different than what I had initially thought. 

While writing the proposal, I had thought that the scope of the project would be to build a fluentbit exporter for the opentelemetry collector, since a receiver has already been implemented, that would allow users to export the logs from the collector to a FluentBit instance, from where it could be exported to various backends. Thus, I had focused on the exporter component of the collector, going through the [fileexporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/master/exporter/fileexporter) to understand how the exporters work.

The proposal that I had submitted while applying on the community bridge website can be found [here](./docs/proposal.pdf).

TL;DR: Write a fluentbit exporter for the collector that would allow users to use the existing log delivery pipeline to a fluentbit/fluentd instance, where you could make use of the existing fluentd plugins (like [parsers](https://docs.fluentd.org/parser), [outputs](https://docs.fluentd.org/output) etc..) to manage the logs. Thus, an end user would be able to use the existing mature ecosystem surrounding fluentd and benefit from it. (Note that I am using fluentd and fluentbit interchangeably, because the input would be from the [fluentforward plugin](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs/forward), that is supported by both of them)


However, after talking with my mentor for the project ([@SergeyKanzhelev](https://github.com/SergeyKanzhelev)) , I realised that the project would be focusing more on the SDK and  modifying the Fluentforward receiver. The idea behind building a fluentbit exporter for opentelemetry is to allow end users export traces and metrics to the collector using the fluentforward protocol, where the fluentforward receiver will be able to recognize these signals as the correct telemetry type instead of treating them as logs. This would involve three main steps - writing an exporter that would allow traces to be sent from the SDK to a FluentBit instance, creating a document that specifies the format in which traces are represented in the MessagePack format, and then modifying the existing FluentBit receiver to recognize the traces instead of treating them as logs.

With that out of the way, I started working on an [exporter](https://github.com/Syn3rman/opentelemetry-go-contrib/blob/master/exporters/trace/fluentforward/fluentforward.go), with the aim of getting the traces to the exporter so I could continue further work. That's it for this week, the work done in the next week will be updated under [week 2](../week2/)
